Blog: CronJob reaches GA (#27198)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2021-04-08-cronjob-reaches-ga/index.md

---
layout: blog

> title: 'CronJob Reaches GA'
> date: 2021-04-09
> slug: cronjob-reaches-ga

Reviewer: Should this be:
```suggestion
title: 'Kubernetes 1.21: CronJob Reaches GA'
date: 2021-04-09
slug: kubernetes-release-1.21-cronjob-ga
```
?

---

 **Authors:** Alay Patel (Red Hat), and Maciej Szulik (Red Hat)

Since last summer, we have been working on a new CronJob Controller (Controller
V2) implementation which initially landed in 1.20 as an alpha feature. In 
kubernetes 1.21 the new controller is turned on by default, and the CronJob 

> resource is promoted to general availability (GA) (iow. batch/v1). This blog

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
resource is promoted to general availability (GA) (group version: `batch/v1`). This blog
```

post walks through the driving forces behind this new development, gives a 
brief description of a controller design in core kubernetes, and explains what
users will gain with this new controller.

> The driving force behind promoting the API was this [proposal](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/tree/master/keps/sig-architecture/1635-prevent-permabeta#sig-apps). Its acceptance
> prevents APIs from being stuck in a permanent beta state. Over the years the
> old CronJob controller had received healthy feedback from the community and
> it had some well-known [issues](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/82659).
> If this API was to be supported as GA, the controller would need a severe re-work.
> Instead, the SIG Apps community decided to introduce a new controller to
> gradually replace the old one. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The driving force behind promoting the API was Kubernetes' policy choice to
[ensure APIs move beyond beta](/blog/2020/08/21/moving-forward-from-beta/).
That policy aims to prevent APIs from being stuck in a “permanent beta” state.
Over the years the old CronJob controller implementation had received healthy feedback from
the community, with reports of several widely recognized
[issues](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/82659).

If the beta API for CronJob was to be supported as GA, the existing controller code
would need substantial rework.
Instead, the SIG Apps community decided to introduce a new controller to
gradually replace the old one.
```

## How do controllers work?

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Kubernetes [controllers](/docs/concepts/architecture/controller/) are control loops that watch
the state of resource(s) in your cluster, then make or request changes where needed. Each
controller tries to move part of the current cluster state closer to the desired state.

```

> The old controller does a periodic poll and sweep of all the objects in order 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The v1 CronJob controller works by performing a periodic poll and sweep of all
the CronJob object in your cluster, in order
```

to act on them. It is a single worker implementation that gets all CronJobs 
every 10 seconds, iterates over each one of them, and syncs them to their 
desired state. This was the default way of doing things almost 5 years ago when
the controller was initially written. In hindsight, we can certainly say that 

> such an approach can overload the apiserver at scale.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
such an approach can overload the API server at scale.
```

These days, every core controller in kubernetes must follow the guidelines 

> described in this [document](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/devel/sig-api-machinery/controllers.md). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
described in [Writing Controllers](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/blob/master/contributors/devel/sig-api-machinery/controllers.md#readme).
```

> Among many details, it prescribes using shared informers to “receive

Reviewer: There's a blog article on shared informers than I recommend linking to, unless it's no longer accurate:
```suggestion
Among many details, that document prescribes using
[shared informers](https://www.cncf.io/blog/2019/10/15/extend-kubernetes-via-a-shared-informer/)
to “receive
```

notifications of adds, updates, and deletes for a particular resource”. Upon any

> such event, the object is placed in a queue. Workers pull items from the queue 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
such events, the related object(s) is placed in a queue. Workers pull items from the queue 
```

and process them one at a time. This approach ensures consistency and
scalability.
 

> The picture below shows the flow of information from kubernetes apiserver, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The picture below shows the flow of information from kubernetes API server, 
```

through shared informers and queue, to the main part of a controller - a 
reconciliation loop which is responsible for performing the core functionality.

![Controller flowchart](controller-flowchart.png)

The CronJob controller V2 uses a queue that implements the DelayingInterface to 
handle the scheduling aspect. This queue allows processing an element after a 
specific time interval. Every time there is a change in a CronJob or its related
Jobs, the key that represents the CronJob is pushed to the queue. The main 

> handle object function pops the key, processes the CronJob, and after completing 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
handler pops the key, processes the CronJob, and after completion 
```

pushes the key back into the queue for the next scheduled time interval. This is
immediately a more performant implementation, as it no longer requires a linear 
scan of all the CronJobs. On top of that, this controller can be scaled by 
increasing the number of workers processing the CronJobs in parallel.

> ## Performance Impact

Reviewer: Optionally:
```suggestion
## Performance impact of the new controller {#performance-impact}
```

In order to test the performance difference of the two controllers a VM instance

> with 128 GiB RAM and 64 vCPUs was used to set up a single node kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with 128 GiB RAM and 64 vCPUs was used to set up a single node Kubernetes cluster.
```

Initially, a sample workload was created with 20 CronJob instances with a schedule
to run every minute, and 2100 CronJobs running every 20 hours. Additionally, 
over the next few minutes we added 1000 CronJobs with a schedule to run every 
20 hours, until we reached a total of 5120 CronJobs. 

![Visualization of performance](performance-impact-graph.png)

We observed that for every 1000 CronJobs added, the old controller used 

> approximately 1.5-2 minutes more to schedule 20 Jobs every cycle. That is, at 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
around 90 to 120 seconds more wall-clock time to schedule 20 Jobs every cycle. That is, at 
```

5120 CronJobs, the old controller took approximately 9 minutes to create 20

> Jobs. Hence, every cycle, about 8 schedules were missed. The new controller, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Jobs. Hence, during each cycle, about 8 schedules were missed. The new controller, 
```

implemented with architectural change explained above, created 20 Jobs without
any delay, even when we created an additional batch of 1000 CronJobs reaching 
a total of 6120. 

As a closing remark, the new controller exposes a histogram metric 
`cronjob_controller_cronjob_job_creation_skew_duration_seconds` which helps 
monitor the time difference between when a CronJob is meant to run and when 
the actual Job is created.

Hopefully the above description is a sufficient argument to follow the 

> guidelines and standards set in the kubernetes project even for your own 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
guidelines and standards set in the Kubernetes project, even for your own 
```

controllers. As mentioned before, the new controller is on by default starting

> from kubernetes v.121, but if you want to check it out in previous release (1.20)
> use the `--feature-gate=”CronJobControllerV2=true”` for kube-controller-manger. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
from Kubernetes v1.21; if you want to check it out in the previous release (1.20),
you can enable the `CronJobControllerV2`
[feature gate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/) for the kube-controller-manger:
`--feature-gate="CronJobControllerV2=true"`.
```
